Has that changed for you?
I don't know, because it's been so many years since I've read it.
But that's one of your Desert Island books that you take on the Desert Island?
Yeah.
And what was the second one you mentioned?
Well, I thought this morning that a good choice would be like a book that would teach me how to survive on islands.
That would be kind of important.
And what was the one you said last night?
It was Weldon by Thoreau.
And why was that?
Because you hadn't read it yet.
There were parts of it, and it was well written, and it seemed like something you could read over and over again and find new layers of meaning and all that.
And it's another book about a guy in isolation, making myself sound like a very isolated guy, I guess.
And then the third one was the...
A book full of blank pages.
I've got a book representing my past, a book from my present, and blank pages representing my future.
That's a good answer.
That's good.
Well, I've heard it last night.
It's interesting.
God damn it.
It's so good.
And I like it.
So I wanted to get it in.
What kind of writing do you hope to do?
Fiction.
I can't say any more specifically than that, you know.
I don't have a genre.
To me, good writing is good writing, and I hope to do good writing.
And whether it's, you know, drama or thriller or science fiction or whatever, it's irrelevant.
I agree.
Good writing is good writing.
That's really it.
I didn't want to take up too much of your time, but I did want to try to get that.
As long as we're talking, I guess about two months ago, I was talking to Lesley's case, and I told him that I played chess with you a couple times, and I think the last time we played, you won.
But you and I had a talk one day when we were driving out, I think, to the north entry control point, and we talked a little bit about the fact that you wanted to be a writer.
And when I was, how old were you, 21?
20.
When I was 20, I was trying very hard to be a writer.
And I think I had a pretty good start.
I wrote about 40 short stories.
I wrote on the order of about 1,500 poems.
Some of them have been published.
I wrote three novels.
Two were what I would call amateur, a category called The Boom to Among You.
Learning how to write, learning how to find your voice, learning how to build a set.
And the third book I wrote I think was a good book.
I was proud of it.
And I...
Foolishly did not ever make a copy of it.
I never put it on a computer.
It was really before computers.
I lost it just before really computers was common.
And the manuscript came up missing and I've lost it.
It's gone.
I mean, I've got pieces of it, but I've lost it.
But I'm telling all that because at your age, and from well before your age, my goal was to be a writer.
I knew that I wanted to write it.
That's not what I ended up doing, needless to say.
Not writing what I thought I was going to write, which was novels.
But thinking back on that, and I've taught English, and despite being a soldier and an officer in the army, in some way or another I've always tried to maintain my connection with literature, with language, with writing, with book culture.
I thought about the fact when I heard that you wanted to be a writer, and I think you've got all the skill and necessary.
You've got the natural abilities.
It's really what you want to do with it and where you want to take it.
But I thought if there was any advice I could have given myself back then that I would have profited from, that I wish somebody probably did say to me back then, and I tried to say this to you in a way that maybe would be useful to you, and I said, what's the most important things you can do to become a good wife?
And I think there's two things that you can do, two very critical things.
One is, you have to write.
Right is right.
Writer's right.
I mean, there's a theory of writing that says, I'm an inspired writer.
Richard Bach wrote a book, it was very popular in the late 60s, called John Helens and Siegel.
And there's this notion of inspired writing, and the muse is going to come, and it's going to stretch.
But there's a history of the belief of that
approach to art that it's inspired.
The other theory, I think, of art, and I want to be very generalistic, is that great work is achieved through great work.
In other words, great literature is written through great effort and work and research and rewriting and all the things that are the brudgery of the business.
And I think now at this age, I believe that that's
Tom Stauer Edison said it's true, 1% inspiration, 99% perspiration.
It may have been Faulkner, it may have been, I don't know who it was, but writing is very easy.
All you do is open the pane and, you know, bring another page.
So writing was one of those two things I think you can do to get better.
But the other thing you can do is you can read voraciously.
And if there's something I know now that I didn't know then, and I've always been a pretty picky reader.
I mean, I don't read a lot of recreational reading.
I don't read, and some people say I'm a snob.
I don't read a lot of paperback trash.
I mean, I just don't.
And many people do.
They read it for entertainment.
I read trash.
I spent 14 hours a day reading my work.
I don't read anything that I think is trash, because every book I pick, I think it's trash.
What can this book give me?
It's popcorn.
It's popcorn in the brain.
That's right.
But what I know now is when I look, I mean, I'm only 44.
I'm 44, which is not exactly old.
But believe it or not, I have a keen sense in my mind.
It's like I have an hourglass with the sand running through, and I can see that every day I have a little less time to read all the things I want to read.
And in my mind, I've never sat down and made a 10,000 reading list, but I know that there's probably...
Probably something like 10,000 more books that I want to read in my lifetime.
And I know, right now I know, that even if I live to be 90, I'm not going to get to read every book that I intend to read.
For a whole bunch of reasons.
Number one, life gets in the way.
Number two, I get sidetracked because I end up reading other things I didn't plan to read but that I end up wanting to read.
So there's serendipitous reading.
But the point in all this is, what I was trying to tell you that day, and I hope you thought about it later, is
You don't have to be completely anal retentive about a reading program, but I do think it helps to have a basic program, at least an idea of certain pieces of that that kind of need to be, for other writers to look at you and go, you haven't read Moby Dick?
How can I take you seriously if you haven't read Moby Dick?
Or you haven't read this or you haven't read that.
I'm hesitant to say that you should adopt it.
the great classics program like they did at Stanford, you know, that whole debate.
St.
John's College, Columbia did it for a while.
And yet, there's an awful lot of virtue in that.
I mean, I think you have to read some of the other stuff, too.
You have to have a well-rounded, diverse reading.
But at the end of the day, the key there is, I don't know anybody that's a great writer that I consider a really, really top writer that doesn't read like crazy.
I just don't.
I don't know anybody that's not well-read that writes well.
That's my comment.
That's pretty good.
Well, I'm
Are we going to go back to the office?
We can.
I was thinking we're going to go to customs.
We're going to drop him off because he's got to go back to the office.
I don't know if you want to borrow that.
I thought that was right along the lines of what you were talking about.
I read a book, Nick, and I can't remember the name of it.
That's fewer than there are brigadier generals.
There's like 350 brigadier generals.
Don't be upset by asking this question.
How old are you, might I ask?
Fifty-eight.
Fantastic.
That's not what you told me last night, Chief.
I know.
I told her twenty-nine.
Did it work?
Well, I got his room number.
I'm the only one who knew where he was.
She's such a person.
What he was starting to tell you was his family started the Kansas City Irish Parade.
No kidding.
So that's where you're from, Kansas City?
Yes, sir.
And so you've been in the service for what year?
I started in 1967.
I was in there.
No, I come in later.
I'll have to start calling you junior.
October of 1967, I went to Navy OCS, Newport.
So you and I went in the same time?
Well, just about.
You raised better than I had.
Let me keep having more fun.
So, and how long have you been flying?
I've been flying since 1964.
I started flying when I was in high school.
Flying what?
Well, I started with a...
what was called a PA-22-108, it's a Piper Colt, and blew everything on a little airfield out there, helping no grads and that.
Wash and wax airplanes for trading time for flight instruction.
So about anything they had out there I thought.
what i thought was kind of well look back funny now but i was real embarrassed because i didn't get a chance to get my dad to get my driver's license but i was ready to get my police license oh no thank you man that's got some heat cut and uh you like hot food oh yeah yeah my eyebrows are melting so i had to i made my mom drive me to the end of the parking lot because i didn't have my driver's license so she had to take me to get my uh
I didn't want the guys at the airport to know you didn't know how to drive.
I knew how to drive it because he didn't have a license.
It's that manly stuff.
And what did you fly in Vietnam?
I flew Charlie model gunships and rovers.
Wow.
That was more of an accident than anything.
It was supposed to be a safe mission.
It was a firefly mission where they just have a
single Huey go up at 4,000 or 5,000 feet and drop players in a single gunship.
And we just kind of ran along the border.
I thought it was, they called it, and you knew that, the Vietnamese, or NBA transportation.
It looked like a line of water going below that.
coming across the border.
It was just twilight.
I just rolled in and turned the systems hot and it turned out to be a regiment of NBA armor.
Wow.
It was kind of hard.
I had overlapping fire in all progress.
It was kind of hard to break contact.
I just kept shooting at them until there wasn't anything left.
Wow.
Well, I guess they got a 142-pills, a 107 Coraless, and a Quad 50 machine gun I picked out, and an ATC of some sort, whatever that was.
It was probably a Lambretta scooter with some garbage cans on the side of it.
I think it was in March.
I can't remember.
Something like that.
That would be great when you could get the two of us.
Dude.
to uh thank god for photoshop yeah yeah well no i was gonna i was gonna cut from the head up get rid of that and get rid of the jowl yeah so you probably won't
Pick a number.
How many, how many different boys?
Really, oh really just this, the first, Vietnam.
I've flown in a lot of different countries.
I hold a dubious record of being shot down the most in my unit and still coming back alive.
Six times in one year.
And when?
How long?
In how long?
Where is that then?
In Vietnam, in Vietnam.
It wasn't very much.
You take a round and you see something going out and you just kind of go over the other tree and land and get out and get the other helicopter.
That's not very spectacular.
I mean, it really is.
Well, it is spectacular to be able to walk up and get any other one.
Well, I had a deal.
You know, you don't have much between you and the plexiglass and what you're doing.
I had a theory on this.
It's just like the rocket that hit our trailers a couple of days ago.
Some of the guys wanted to move out, and I said, that's the safest place right there to live.
I would put my bed right in the middle of that hole because what's the odds?
So anybody that got shot or killed,
I would borrow their equipment, because if somebody got shot in that chicken plate, well, what's the odds of me getting shot in the same chicken plate that so-and-so did?
So pretty soon, towards the end of my tour, I was invincible because I had nothing.
But, I mean, what's the odds of getting shot with all this crud on?
Because it is my psychological armor against... So were you superstitious?
I'm Irish.
We have banshees and all that other good stuff.
I'm talking about make-believe stuff.
Roman Catholic.
You can't do that.
I'm your TAO question.
He also believes the confession of goodwill.
Oh, there you go.
See, if you can't behave yourself, we're going to put you in an interview.
I know.
I try to be good.
Have you made any comparisons between your experience in Vietnam and Vietnam?
I did, and I have, and it is similar.
In one instance, well, I can only speak in my little snap, my little itty-bitty window, you know, from flying across.
But I'm flying basically the same tactics I used in Vietnam.
We're flying this Sherpa 100 feet off the ground as fast as we go because the people aren't duck hunters.
so they don't have a leading aircraft very well.
That's the principle.
Yeah, I mean, it works.
I mean, it was tough on my crew chiefs that sat behind me, because I used to wear a big white helmet with no doors, and they'd try to get me, and usually they got the tailbone, but occasionally they moved up a little closer.
That's reasonable.
I'm just like, sure.
Thanks.
But from flying across the country here, just like I did in Vietnam,
The landscape, instead of a wet one, is a dry one.
But you still see people living in incredibly primitive conditions with their families.
And you can see them toiling out there from sun up to sunset.
Hey, Chief, can you show you this patch here?
That's the Mayor Cowell, right here.
That's the 23rd Division.
There's not very many guys wearing that, but there are at least...
two here on LCA.
The reason we're doing this, I'm a PAO.
Well, I'm ready.
No, no, he's good, he's good.
Chief here, he's talking about the experience of Vietnam.
Chief was a pilot and got involved in Michigan and Cambodia border in 1970.
That's incredible what we're talking about.
You weren't Chinook, were you?
No, it was Charlie Model Gunships and Covers.
Yeah, I used to pick them up all the time.
Yeah, they used to drop my aircraft all the time.
There's about 15 where this pad can see it right.
Yeah, and I tell you what, the scariest I've ever been is flying in a Chinook.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Let me get a picture of you.
I forgot my camera back at my quarters, and I...
I'm looking at your ankles now.
Yeah, I love it.
You're such a pisser.
I know, but you're still a pisser.
It's okay.
You can say that.
Bam Smith is a pisser.
This patch, 23rd, stood down December 17, 1971.
Okay.
So tell me your first name?
Donald.
For a piece of paper.
Yeah.
Would you please get his phone number?
No.
I'll give you a holler.
Okay, Donald.
You get the phone.
Yeah, get his phone number.
It's perfect.
That's the third American health page I have seen.
We call it MetroCal.
What?
MetroCal.
Are you sexual?
No, you don't know.
That is recorded.
Oh, I'm sorry?
Six, seven.
You guys are so young you don't even know.
He doesn't look old enough.
Okay, but why do they call it, what do you just call it?
I don't know why they call it the Metricow.
I know why they call it the Americow.
The Illinois flag?
Ah!
Out of World War II.
Let's see if he knows.
Hey, sir, have you ever heard it called the Metricow patch?
Yes.
Americow.
No, we call it Metricow.
They're so young, they don't even know what MetroCal was, the first diet drink way back when.
And that was me trying to make it.
It was the original Nutrisis.
It was canned diet stuff back in the 70s.
I was with the... It was a flying boss car.
They had two diets on their ass, a nylon, and had six ones on them.
What year were you there?
71, 72.
Pretty late.
Yeah, that's why I'm so young.
I know a little bit about the Weir Cow.
That's one unit I did a lot of research on.
But no, I'm 54.
He's 54, their folks 58.
But that's not what the chief told me last night.
He was over there earlier.
Yeah, he was over there earlier.
He told me he was like 37, 38.
My hair's out of work now.
He's got that much time in service.
Hey, thanks.
I know I caught you off the car.
Thank you so much.
I appreciate it.
That's okay.
I'm used to it.
I worked at a theater lover the whole time.
I spent most of my time with the theater support and management down in New Orleans.
Yeah.
Getting ready to come back over.
Were you down there during the hurricane?
No, I was there during the hurricane.
You were here?
Were you?
I've been here for 15 months straight.
This would have been?
Really?
This would have been a better place to be.
I mean, I haven't been to New Orleans.
Everything I've seen.
I need a good story because I'm running for miles right now.
Just read that number of letters and make sure you got it right.
312-987-6967-46404.
Well, no, what it is, we have a beatback.
Okay, so I dialed the PSN.
It sends me here.
Put in the 1 and put in the 4 vision.
Put in the 1 first?
Yeah.
Okay.
But you're right over here at AMSB.
Yeah, I'm right over here.
Okay.
Got it.
AMSB.
All right, that's it.
Okay.
I need a good story, because when I get back, I'm going to run against Dick Durbin.
Go get him.
It'll be fun.
After I use this file, I'll use more records or something.
Thank you, sir.
Okay.
Sorry.
You were talking about the similarities I see when I fly across the country.
I'm flying at 100 feet just like I did back 37 years ago.
And I still see the family out there working in the field and just struggling to take care of me or anybody.
And I've got a picture of it.
It's the same thing.
They all look friendly and wave just like the Vietnamese did, and they're concerned with what's right in front of them, about taking care of their family.
And in that same instance, you have no idea who's going to shoot at you, and you have no idea who the real enemy is, because you can't discern them between the civilian and the local population.
So from that little snapshot, it's identical.
But the other difference is,
Gosh, how well they're taken care of here.
I don't have running rats underneath my skids in my tent.
I don't have standing out in the rain lathered up getting a shower out there, so it's amazing the things that they have here.
Tremendous.
I just have to believe the kind of flying that you do.
There's never any margin for error anyway, but I imagine that
It's kind of multiplied by 10 or 20.
Yeah, you've got to be focused because it's not much higher than the ceiling as fast as the aircraft would go.
But that's what makes it time.
That's what makes it time go quick.
I'm sorry, the end?
No, no, no.
I was going to say I'm surrounded by probably the best
youngest, best talent the Army has in aviation, and I don't see myself old.
I see everybody else surrounding me, and so I'm still young at heart doing that.
Plus, it keeps you wired up doing that all the time.
I mean, you have to... It's kind of like doing your exercise daily.
You don't grow any complex, and I think it's... I'm so fortunate to be physically able to do all that.
It's the best thing I've ever done in my life.
How long do you think you'll be doing this?
Well, when I turn 60, I'm gone.
So you think that you'll be playing for two more years?
Oh, definitely.
Let's become physically stopped.
It hasn't happened yet.
Do you have a rough idea of how many hours you've got?
About 18,000 hours.
Wow.
And how many different kind of aircraft would you say you've flown?
I'm guessing both civilian and military, probably 20 different fixed-wing and probably the same.
40 different types of aircraft.
You've probably driven those many cars.
I mean, the only difference is where the windshield wiper is at or the blinker.
It goes down the road the same way.
The steering wheel and the pedal, it might handle a little differently, but, you know, that's... And I'll bet the trick is you never take it for granted.
No, you can't.
You're kind of like a pretty girl.
Any observations on the kind of work you're doing here?
Yeah, well, there's missions where I'm taking crates of blood where it's needed, food and things that they can't get there, and it's the safest way to travel, just like it is in the States.
It's safer to fly than it is to drive.
And so you feel good about that.
What I really feel good, and I call them kids, and they're not, but they're
20s and 30s is showing them all the different techniques when I'm gone.
Not that I'm going to make that much difference, but showing them the easy way of staying alive as opposed to letting them copy the mistakes that we did way back when.
And Vietnam is kind of a Darwinian thing because we didn't have a lot of SOPs and things.
The SOPs, the procedures of how we do things now, is basically written in the blood from the guys that flew in Vietnam.
Written in blood.
You know what SOP is, right?
A standard operating machine.
Do you know where Bravo Zulu is?
I'm a Navy guy.
Aren't they Bravo Zulu?
Does that mean you lose here?
Nothing like Tango Uniform.
No.
No, where it comes from is the signal flags.
If you run Bravo Zulu up on the Yard Arms, it means Bravo Zulu, well done.
And I use it at an L.A.
Times page, and I figured everybody in the world knew what it was.
I got some questions.
What the hell does Bravo Zulu mean, you know?
I was talking about my own ship, the original, which is, its career is going to be a smart day.
Yeah, that's a name, but if you do a Google, just do Bravo Zoom, and it'll come up, and it'll tell you it's the international signal for well-dying.
Do it, just do a Google, just write in Bravo Zoom, and it'll come up.
And I figure, well, if that's what it comes up, then they don't understand it.
The pilot would know.
You said you landed on the aircraft carrier, right?
Well, it landed on the river.
It's never an aircraft carrier.
Landed on there to resupply.
You could only put your skids down a little bit as they moved down the river when we picked up people that were hurt or whatever.
Because if you put all your weight of the aircraft on, you'd sink it.
And what's the identity of the unit that you fly with here?
It's the 3rd Battalion 135th Aviation Regiment under the 101st Airborne.
So you are an Army pilot?
Yes, sir.
I think people would probably be surprised to learn that the Army has more pilots than any of the services.
It has more ships and it has more trains and more, I mean, people are surprised to find that we have
army people pilots and captains on ships that now that surprises me we have in fact here in the tigris river we have an army detachment that's moving boats and keeping floating bridges going across keeping the traffic pretty neat stuff and how is your your mission here defined how do they define taking uh
all needs, either personnel or parts or blood or other essential places to the other bases, quickly and safely.
Do you have a rough idea of how many of these you've done since you've been here?
Roughly.
It's two pounds.
Oh, yeah, I know it.
It's about 70 hours of flying, so four or five stops apiece.
I've only been here a few months.
So when did you start here?
Started here in January and actually started to fly first of February.
Got all the paperwork and stuff going.
And the tour here is for how long?
A year.
And you're from Missouri and where is home now?
Springfield.
And what I do there full-time is I'm a test pilot and a aviation safety officer Monday, Tuesday, Friday.
And do you have a family back there?
We do.
I've got a family and got a horse and cattle ranch my family has.
And when I retire,
I'm part of the Navy part that I've always wanted to do.
I'm solo self-navigating the world in a sailboat.
Wow.
That's my big chore.
I've got an ocean-going sailboat, so as soon as I get a chance to get out of this in two years, that's my next goal.
And how long are we going to do an exercise like that?
About 18 to 20 minutes.
And it's going to be solo.
Oh, yeah.
My wife works.
She's going to send me the checks.
Well, what does she think about all this?
Well, she's going to meet me at various places, fly out and say hi, and she knows that it's been a lifetime goal.
And she's an accomplished sailor, too, but she'll join me one day.
So where did the guy from Missouri learn how to sail in an ocean-going sailboat?
Well, we've got one of the top ten sailing lakes in the United States is at Stockton Lake, just because of the way it's shaped.
We've got...
A little over 400 members in our yacht car, but probably 200 boats or 30 foot or greater sailboats.
And how long do you anticipate such a trip?
Is that 18 months?
18 to 22 months, depending on how long they stay.
And how long do you, when you do a port call, I mean, how long do you, how much time do you spend until you get bored?
That's what retirement's about, I think.
So you don't mind your own company.
That's the hardest person to get along with.
That's quite a guy.
Have you done a story on him yet?
You're going to let me make sure I get a copy of it.
And maybe we can get another picture so we're not stuck with the trays.
Let me tell you something else.
For the first time, I went by his tooth.
Because I thought he was going to be flying me tomorrow, flying us, if I end up going.
And in his little room, she's got a table, and he's got all these things of sweat.
I said, what the hell is that?
Were you a seamstress?
He said, no, I'm making fishing flies.
He's got a thing and he's sitting there.
So you've got a guy sitting in the middle of the desert making fishing flies for fishers.
And I said, we needed that for the store.
That's the kind of human interest color that I think is important.
And it's fascinating.
He showed me one or two of his little flies in there.
Now, have you ever caught anything with those?
Oh, always.
I wouldn't buy them if I couldn't.
That would be a waste of time.
I mean, there are guys that make flies, and they don't even fish, but the Trucette is probably out of the making.
So what's your specialty?
What's your favorite fly that you make?
Well, the Royal Wolf, or the Griffith, or just your...
basic stone flying them right and nobody fishes out here in the iraqi desert right i haven't i'd be afraid that he puts out here in the tigers i'm not sure what they've got i had fish from the tigers last week really okay in barrage amazing no this was over this was with the iraqi soldiers that i went on the convoy with imagine what's in that water
But you know what?
They had the two fish there, and you reach in with your hand, and you pick it up.
It was delicious.
You ate it.
And he's still here, Nick.
That's the testament.
He's still here.
If you do that for a year, you might have three heads.
I don't know.
Life is full of rest.
It would have been very ungracious.
Oh, no.
It was delicious.
You couldn't tell me what kind of fish it was, but it was excellent.
That's amazing.
So I've eaten fish from the Tigers.
In fact, you've drinking water from the Tigers.
Oh, yes.
Because the water that we bottled in the... I'm sure it's been... No, it's been perfectly... We have a water bottling plant here, and I got to go through with a reporter
and listen to them explain how it's actually cleaner than most bottled water in the united states but that water comes out of tiger's river and i think that's really neat to be drinking water from tiger's river
Yeah, she said that that way I wouldn't have other women on it.
But I told her since we're down here in the Ozarks, Gary, you forgot one thing.
These women in the Ozarks can't read.
He's going to use that line.
It's my mother.
Did I miss anything, Brian?
What do we know about sheep that he used to?
Things I don't want to talk about.
What was the nickname they gave you on that board?
What was the thing they wrote on the board?
In his flight office they have a board and they all write these jokes on and off.
You were down at the bottom.
They gave everybody nicknames.
What was your nickname?
It wasn't a nickname.
It was rumors to be Squash.
And what was the rumor about you that was supposed to be Squash?
Somebody put on here that I was related to Wilbur Wright.
The guy that taught me how to fly, the guy that taught me how to fly,
He was a World War II Army Air Corps instructor, a civilian, but he got taught by a guy named Major Barrier right after World War I, who was taught by the Global Riders.
There were just a couple to move from aviation.
But isn't that something, Ben, that you can actually establish like a direct link there?
Which must be horrible, right?
Do you have anything that you could tell us about maybe anything that's caused the most panic since you've been here?
Well, just yesterday, all my navigation equipment as I was going to our crew just dropped offline and we were close to the Iranian border.
And the first thought that went through my mind is that, you know, I hate to end my career being the first.
aircraft shot down by Iran here in this breakage.
Then we climbed out and I was just using my mag compass and the radios were going out.
So after a little bit of panic, I finally got ahold of somebody who gave me a direction and a distance of Y2.
We used the old stone method of using an E6B or a little whiz wheel.
So yeah, it's got to be this heading.
When we landed, the low field light came on.
It's a little about 100 miles away, but it kind of was making me
I had some of those moments of trepidation that I had in Vietnam trying to figure out where the heck is going.
And that's what I was saying.
We've automated ourselves into the Stone Age.
We have this flight management system that does all this neat stuff.
And when it craps out, it's like, OK, guys.
Of course, the kids aren't used to this, you know.
going across the ocean with a kind of what's your whistle and head out that way, but it works out.
It was always an exciting day yesterday.
Yeah, it made me tucker a little bit, thinking that, you know.
And the worst humiliation wasn't crashing in the desert.
trying to chase down the camel for a ride was the humiliation of coming back and having the rest of the pilots give you a load of crap for losing an aircraft in the desert.
That's a great story.
But they fixed it, and they said it was right.
They brought all the mechanics in, replaced all the black boxes, and swore to me that it was going to work.
And I did make the mechanics fly with me that said that.
And halfway home it broke again, so we had to do the whole thing over again.
And that's why it came from the Virgin Islands.
I accused it of having some kind of voodoo curse on it.
There's something that's making it crazy.
That's a great story.
He's a great story.
Isn't he great?
Minty beer.
Oh, we got some guys.
That was just minty beers.
You know, the kids always have something they're working on since there's no alcohol.
There's some of our rocket scientists that are trying to figure out how to distill scope.
Because you know you've been on the Navy.
They get the alcohol out of it to put it back in and it ain't here for your ear.
And all they've got is right now they come up with it.
It tastes like minty beer.
It tastes like mouthwashed beer.
But anyway, it's given them something to do to pass the time to see if they can come up with something.
So how do you feel about that service where they live all the time?
For an Irishman, it's really tough.
My liver's not right.
He asked if I was going to fly until 60.
I don't know, after a year's sobriety.
What was the identification of the unit that you served with in Vietnam?
It was the 162nd Assault Helicopter Company.
We were copperhead gunships.
You go out of where?
Dong Cam and Canto.
And what was the slogan of that and of that outfit?
Die, bastards, die.
What's the slogan now created?
The slogan, yeah, that's what they had on it.
They made us take it away.
Our patch and our unit resides in Fort Hood, Texas.
I tracked it down.
And I don't know what they put on the patch, whether it's more politically correct than what we used to have on our passage.
So you don't even know what it is now?
It's Copperheads, but it's not Die Bastards Die, I can assure you.
So which one do you like?
Which one do you prefer?
I like War's Hell, Die Bastards Die.
It's just like Patton said.
It's not you dying for your company, it's making the other stupid bastard die.
That's Patton, that's right.
George Patton.
I remember in Vietnam.
I went into Vietnam a couple of times.
I remember there was the Smokies.
They said, only you can prevent forests.
Keith, how many other Vietnam vets do you think is serving right here?
How many have you run into?
I think there's, well, I know there's one, I know for sure there's one more that's, well, actually two more.
There's a sergeant major and one of the pilots.
In your battalion.
So you have at least two others that are in your battalion.
Correct.
My guys that I've talked to occasionally that was in my unit, they kind of lost track and they're just remarked.
They just can't believe it.
Still doing it.
And it is.
It's as much fun as it was when I started flying.
It is.
Is that the thing?
No, I really believe that God has given each one of us a talent that nobody else has ever been here before or ever going to be can do.
And the task is to do it as good as you can and share that with everybody else.
And I owned and operated my own restaurants.
I'm a trained chef.
I had some great concepts.
Some of the best restaurants in Kansas City.
The American Restaurant, one of the top 10 restaurants in the United States, down half of Walmart Cart.
Had me run it for him, and some of my consultants were Chef Grandola, Craig Claiborne, James Muir, Barbara Kafka.
So I've worked with the Creme de la Creme, and that was, what was the name of the restaurant?
The American Restaurant.
And I was, at the top of my peak, I was very fortunate to be, and I still was fine.
But I found out early in life that I got a coffee cup that said that success is loving what you do.
And I was very successful doing that.
I was good at motivating people under stress.
Of course, that was probably my origins in Vietnam.
Part of the thing is I absolutely loved watching kids learn to walk.
I can remember how great it was when I was taught by this older gentleman, even though I used to cuss, smoke the cigar, and throw things at me when I did it wrong.
But I expected it.
What was the most important piece of advice you ever received from a mentor, and what's the most important piece of advice that you've tested?
Well, it can only come with one.
Part of that is you never stop working.
As I go on with that, if you get good at something and just become a comfortable niche,
and you don't continue pursuing it, and you're working and studying it, then you're doing yourself and the rest of the people in your field in this service.
It took me almost 30 years when I was really good, and that's 30 years, which is about, and I started in 64, so about 94, to get to like an ant crawling on the table to find it when I was really good, I mean, physically able, and I wasn't caught up in a lot of other things I am now,
I was like an ant on this table.
I could only identify the periphery and the knowledge I didn't know about in the field of endeavor.
It took me that long to figure out what I didn't know.
But it was a great confidence builder because you could send me out and do anything because I could identify what I didn't know about in the field.
I could mitigate my risk and I felt very confident.
I knew I could do it.
Now the guys will go out and say, yeah, I can do it.
And then they get up there going, holy cow, now we're like, you know.
But I think that's just continuing working at your field.
Don't let yourself just kind of atrophy and slide off into a board.
and then train and share that with other people.
And when did you have time to go in a restaurant in Kansas City?
I was in the National Guard from 70 and I, like I said, I was always in the restaurant business with my family.
And so I did that for quite a while.
that's right but i work full-time for the guard as a military technician as a test pilot so back in 85 i had an opportunity to walk out of this field i kind of had an epiphany i got a big divorce i was making tons of money i would have been a retired millionaire but
I probably would have died at a younger age, but I'm extremely fortunate to be able to walk out of the top of this career and ride into another field of endeavor that I had been doing ever since.
And so, I absolutely love it.
It keeps me young, keeps me on my toes.
It works the heck out.
It's crazy.
Aside from the smoking and the drinking, what's the biggest change in the military that you've seen back in the 60s and now?
What I see now, and you will relate to this, is in the 60s and us, we did everything communally.
If there's four or five of us playing cribbage or cards, there was 20 others sitting around watching, and there was a constant chatter and talk.
If one went to eat, we all went to eat.
It was a group thing because we were all in the entertainment, and there was a lot more interaction between us.
Now I see the kids in our units.
They're incredibly talented.
When you walk, there's hardly any eye contact.
They all got their iPods in.
They're on email.
They come home.
They're on their DVD.
They're insular.
They're cocooned inside their own world.
Not that they don't relate, but it's amazing in the last few years how I've seen this grow even more
We pass without seeing people.
We pass without recognizing emotions or anything.
And so I see that difference.
And the automation, like I said, I see when it stops, like when our power stops over there, we have an incredible system that I wish we had when we were in Vietnam.
But when the power stops, we basically automate ourselves.
And it's amazing to watch because we forgot how to sit down and do
long division in math and generate stuff out real quick because how we used to do it more than that because we're used to just inputting keystroke boom and it doesn't work for that and so there's some of that and i think from doing it that long way you have an insightful idea of how the results should be as opposed to the google answer you have no idea how it's going to come out
So that's what it is.
That's very perceptive.
I've got it.
I want to make sure.
Chief, I've forgotten about the navigation of the globe.
Chief, just tell me again the parallels between what you were just telling me outside.
What's that, sir?
Oh, for the parallels between flying and sailing.
Well, it's identical.
The aerodynamic qualities of the sailor, the airfoil of an aircraft,
And it's like sailing on the water without anyit's flying on the water without any noise.
So, to me, it's a continuation of my flying.
And most pilots are multicast.
They like to be fidgeting with stuff, so sailing gives you a chance to change the camber of the sail and the angle.
You fiddle around with everything else while people are sitting there watching.
You steer with your feet, and you're doing that, and everybody's having a nice cocktail enjoying themselves.
Then I asked you the kinds of things you think about when you're up there.
You said even flying here, you were flying over it.
I was looking at the civilization here and realizing that the reason this didn't have any architectural significance is because there was a lack of access to quarried stone here.
all they have is rubble rock and adobe so if it was somewhere else where they had they had the manpower looking at the places like the ziggurat that reconstruction but they didn't have any access to cord stone within easy reach you see that is so pertinent because when you think of uh writing begins here correct and the cuneiform but the whole essence of cuneiform it's in it's in
Clay tablets.
Because they didn't have rock.
They had the papyrus, but they didn't have the process.
And the word cuneiform means wedge shape, by the way, because that's the only way you could take that stylus and put it into the wet clay and wedge it and make these characters.
And yet this is where it begins, with the simplest of ingredients, isn't it?
Yes, the cuneiform and the Arabic, the numeric system, and they had the concept of zero that nobody else did.
But had they had quarried stone, do you think the writing would have begun as it did?
Do you think they would have found another medium?
Well, I don't know.
You know, another thing that's really amazing is that
This is on another area, but they do an RNA when they were checking, like, the descendants of Eve when they were going through RNA, which was passed on by the mother, and checking the different societies and how they migrated across where they thought from Africa and out through the hemisphere.
But they found here recently the two closest related people, or actually the one closest related people to the Greek civilization is the Navajo Indians.
almost a direct 99.99% descendant.
So if you think about this, here's the cradle of civilization in Greek, and they split, they figured, around 12,000 to 14,000 years ago, and one crossed the land bridge.
So it had to be the nomadic lifestyle and the easy source of protein that caused the...
the one civilization this spring, and the other one still a great civilization.
It's funny, when you look at the Navajo Indians and the Greeks, you can see the similarities.
But isn't that an amazing thing?
I'm of Greek descent, by the way, so it's sad that I've never heard this people.
Well, this was just recently published in the Scientific American magazine about four months ago.
And so I went on that thought about, isn't that amazing that...
maybe it was an easy source of protein on the mediterranean that caused them to have more time to build the structures and generate a society with the same genetic trait then elsewhere and are these some of the things that occupy your thoughts when you're up there flying these aircraft yeah some of them